============
Readme pyndl
============

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/quantling/pyndl.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/quantling/pyndl?branch=master

.. image:: https://landscape.io/github/quantling/pyndl/master/landscape.svg?style=flat
    :target: https://landscape.io/github/quantling/pyndl/master
    :alt: Code Health

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/github/quantling/pyndl/badge.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://coveralls.io/github/quantling/pyndl?branch=master

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/pyndl.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pyndl/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/license/quantling/pyndl.svg
    :target: https://github.com/quantling/pyndl/blob/master/LICENSE.txt

.. image:: https://zenodo.org/badge/80022085.svg
    :target: https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/80022085


This python3 package is a collection of useful script in order to run tasks on
huge amounts of text file corpora. Especially, it allows to efficiently apply
the Rescorla-Wagner learning rule to these corpora.

.. warning::

    This package is still in alpha and there might be some API changes in the
    near future. If you want to suggest us some contact us under konstantin
    (dot) sering (Ã¤t) uni-tuebingen.de.

.. note::

    This package is not intended to be used under python2.


Getting Started
===============
These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your
local machine for development and testing purposes. See deployment for notes on
how to deploy the project on a live system.


Prerequisites
-------------
You need python 3.4 or newer and git installed on your machine. We recommend to
install Minicoda (https://conda.io/miniconda.html) before installing ``pyndl``
or to create a virtualenv within your personal folder.


Installing
----------
If you only want to use the package run you can install ``pyndl`` from pypi with:

.. code:: bash

    pip install --user pyndl

If you want to inspect and change the source code as well as running tests and
having the documentation at hand clone the repository and install the package
in 'development' mode by running

.. code:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/quantling/pyndl.git
    cd pyndl
    python setup.py develop


Documentation and Examples
--------------------------
Documentation and examples can be found under
http://pyndl.readthedocs.io/en/latest/ or in the ``doc/`` folder after cloning
the repository.


Running the tests
=================
If you have installed ``pyndl`` by cloning the repository change directory to
the repository and run (for fast tests):

.. code:: bash

    cd pyndl
    py.test
    py.test doc/souce/example.rst


For full tests you can run:

.. code:: bash

    tox

For manually checking coding guidelines run:

.. code:: bash

    pep8 pyndl tests
    pylint --ignore-patterns='.*\.so' --rcfile=setup.cfg -j 2 pyndl tests

For more details on which tests are run in the continuous testing environment
look at the file ``tox.ini``.


Deployment
==========
In order to create a source dist package run:

.. code:: bash

    python setup.py sdist


Contributing
============
Please read
`CONTRIBUTING.rst
<https://github.com/quantling/pyndl/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.rst>`_ for details
on our code of conduct, and the process for submitting pull requests to us.


Versioning
==========
At the moment we are still in alpha and therefore no API garatuees are given,
but soon we will change to use `SemVer <http://semver.org/>`_ for versioning. For
the versions available,
see the `tags on this repository <https://github.com/quantling/pyndl/tags>`_.


Authors
=======
See also the list of `contributors
<https://github.com/quantling/pyndl/contributors>`_ who participated in this
project.


License
=======
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the `LICENSE.txt
<https://github.com/quantling/pyndl/blob/master/LICENSE.txt>`_ file for details


Acknowledgments
===============
This package is build as a python replacement for the R ndl2 package. Some
ideas on how to build the API and how to efficiently run the Rescorla Wagner
iterative learning on large text corpora are inspired by the way the ndl2
package solves this problems.

